# Lawyer bot

This is a Telegram bot that can find laws related to the user's situation described in natural language. It can also explain found laws in a simpler language.
Who needs it?
* For citizens without legal education
* For practicing lawyers for quick navigation 
* For internal customer support services in the government/fintech sectors

## Performace
Using a law from the dataset as a query:
* Presicion@10: 0.643
* Recall@10: 0.002
* Hits@10: 0.947
* MRR: 0.769
* NDCG@10: 0.807
* MAP@10: 0.745

Using test queries generated by ChatGPT + manually filtered
* Presicion@10: 0.028
* Recall@10: 0.005
* Hits@10: 0.080
* MRR: 0.035
* NDCG@10: 0.045
* MAP@10: 0.032

These metrics suggest that we have a lot of room for improvement. One possible option could be to change a dataset to a smaller one, only consisting of constitution and federal laws.

## How to run
1) Clone the repository
2) Run "pip install -r requirements.txt" in the downloaded folder folder
3) Create ".env" file in the tg_bot folder with "TOKEN=<telegram_bot_token>". One of the ways to obtain it is to use @BotFather in Telegram
4) Run bot.py and you will be able to interact with your Telegram bot
   
## Technical details
Dataset used: https://github.com/irlcode/RusLawOD (currently cut to 50k samples)

We first make embeddings for every law in the dataset (after lemmalizing it). After this, for each user query we search 50 closest embeddings to the embedding of the query. Then we return 5 closest laws with at most 2 being from the same class (classes are predetermined in the dataset).

* Frontend: Telegram bot on aiogram
* Backend: Built in logic inside TG bot
* Retrieval:  FAISS database + rubert-tiny2 model
* LLM Generation:  ollama with gemma3 / saiga model
* Storage: Local parsquet files + FAISS index
